starter/07-Omnifood-Desktop/content/annotations.md, before:

## The 7 Steps to a Great Website

Como proceder una vez que uno quiera hacer sus propios websites

### The process behind building a website

1. DEFINE

- Definir `para quien realmente` va a ser el sitio, va a ser para mi? para un cliente de una agencia? o para mi negocio de freelancing?
- Definir `para QUE` sirve realmente el sitio, el objetivo o la finalidad el sitio(proveer info, vender algún producto o entretener el usuario?), los objetivos del usuario y de la compañía

> Example:
> Business goal example: Selling premium dog food
> User goal example: Finding high-quality dog food for good price

> [!IMPORTANT] - No empezar a construir el sitio sin este paso
> Define target audience. Be really specific if possible and if it make sense for your website (this can come from your client): Women, 20 to 30, living in Europe, earning over 2000$/month, with a passion for dogs
> Podríamos buscar sitios de la competencia, los usuarios que lo usan, etc

2. PLAN

Esto se basa del paso anterior

- Comienza planeando y reuniendo el contenido del website: texto, images, videos etc
- Content is usually `provided by the client`, but you also can help them produce and find some content(simply finding free images is easiest, pero si quieren el texto que lo hagas, cobrarles extra), en small companies a veces es necesario hacerlo uno o contratar algún redactor
- For bigger sited, plan out the `sitemap` o flujo: what pages the site needs, and how they are related to one another (content hierarchy)
- Basado en el contenido, planear what `sections` each page needs in order to convey(transmitir) el mensaje al usuario, lo mejor posible, and in which order
- Es el contenido el que debe guiar el proyecto y su diseño final, hacer que el contenido guie el proyecto, no al contrario
- Basado en lo que se sabe de la compañía y el contenido, definir => `website personality`

3. SKETCH

- Think about what `components` you need, and how you can use them in layout patterns(get inspiration in the design section)
- Create sketched with `pen and paper`, or with some design software (Figma pro ejemplo o excalidraw) => deben ser bastante simples a este punto, dibujar algunos bocetos
- Iterative process: experiment with different components and layouts, until you arrive a good solution(nada esta en piedra hasta este punto), en algunos puntos avanzar hasta la mitad para saltar a html y css, es ambiguo
- NO comenzar a hacer código antes de tener una idea general o aproximada de lo que se quiere construir

4. DESIGN AND BUILD

- Usar las decisiones antes tomadas, and sketches from steps 1, 2 and 3 to `design and build the website with HTML and CSS` ("designing in the browser)
- You already have the `layout` and `components` that you selected in Step 3. In this step, you need to design the actual `visual styles`
- Create the design based on selected `website personality`, the `design guidelines` que Jonas nos mostró (See web design section)
- Use the `client's branding` (si existe) for design decisions cuando sea possible: `colors, typography, icons,` etc

5. TEST AND OPTIMIZE
   Cuando se haya desarrollado la app

- Make sure website works well in `all major websites`(Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, maybe even old IE 😱)
- Test the website on `actual mobile devices`, not just in DevTools
- Optimize all `images`, in terms of dimensions and file size(ver images lecture)
- Fis simple `accessibility` problems (ej color contrast issues)
- Run the `Lighthouse` performance test in Chrome DevTools and try to fix reported issues
- Pensar en la optimización de los motores de búsqueda (SEO) <= BUSCAR ESTO

6. LAUNCH

- Once the work is done, everything is perfect, and you got approval from your client (o mi mismo), it's time to `share your masterpiece with the world`
- Upload your website files to a `hosting platform`. There are countless platform, we will use Netlify
- Choose and buy a great `domain name`, one that represents the brand well, is memorable and easy to write (que sea fácil de memorizar, que represente a la compañía que esta diseñado)

7. MAINTAIN AND UPDATE

- Launching is not the end
- Keep the website content `updated over time`. If you're working with a client, you can create monthly maintenance contract (ingresos recurrentes 🤑)
- Install `analytics software` (ej Google Analytics or Fathom) to get statistics about website users. This may `inform future changes` in the site structure and content
- A `blog` that is updated regularly is a good way to keep users coming back, and is also good for SEO

Commit message:

feat: Defining and Planning the Project (Steps 1 and 2 part 1

starter/07-Omnifood-Desktop/content/annotations.md, after:

## The 7 Steps to a Great Website

Como proceder una vez que uno quiera hacer sus propios websites

### The process behind building a website

1. DEFINE

- Definir `para quien realmente` va a ser el sitio, va a ser para mi? para un cliente de una agencia? o para mi negocio de freelancing?
- Definir `para QUE` sirve realmente el sitio, el objetivo o la finalidad el sitio(proveer info, vender algún producto o entretener el usuario?), los objetivos del usuario y de la compañía

> Example:
> Business goal example: Selling premium dog food
> User goal example: Finding high-quality dog food for good price

> [!IMPORTANT] - No empezar a construir el sitio sin este paso
> Define target audience. Be really specific if possible and if it make sense for your website (this can come from your client): Women, 20 to 30, living in Europe, earning over 2000$/month, with a passion for dogs
> Podríamos buscar sitios de la competencia, los usuarios que lo usan, etc

2. PLAN

Esto se basa del paso anterior

- Comienza planeando y reuniendo el contenido del website: texto, images, videos etc
- Content is usually `provided by the client`, but you also can help them produce and find some content(simply finding free images is easiest, pero si quieren el texto que lo hagas, cobrarles extra), en small companies a veces es necesario hacerlo uno o contratar algún redactor
- For bigger sited, plan out the `sitemap` o flujo: what pages the site needs, and how they are related to one another (content hierarchy)
- Basado en el contenido, planear what `sections` each page needs in order to convey(transmitir) el mensaje al usuario, lo mejor posible, and in which order
- Es el contenido el que debe guiar el proyecto y su diseño final, hacer que el contenido guie el proyecto, no al contrario
- Basado en lo que se sabe de la compañía y el contenido, definir => `website personality`

3. SKETCH

- Think about what `components` you need, and how you can use them in layout patterns(get inspiration in the design section)
- Create sketched with `pen and paper`, or with some design software (Figma pro ejemplo o excalidraw) => deben ser bastante simples a este punto, dibujar algunos bocetos
- Iterative process: experiment with different components and layouts, until you arrive a good solution(nada esta en piedra hasta este punto), en algunos puntos avanzar hasta la mitad para saltar a html y css, es ambiguo
- NO comenzar a hacer código antes de tener una idea general o aproximada de lo que se quiere construir

4. DESIGN AND BUILD

- Usar las decisiones antes tomadas, and sketches from steps 1, 2 and 3 to `design and build the website with HTML and CSS` ("designing in the browser)
- You already have the `layout` and `components` that you selected in Step 3. In this step, you need to design the actual `visual styles`
- Create the design based on selected `website personality`, the `design guidelines` que Jonas nos mostró (See web design section)
- Use the `client's branding` (si existe) for design decisions cuando sea possible: `colors, typography, icons,` etc

5. TEST AND OPTIMIZE
   Cuando se haya desarrollado la app

- Make sure website works well in `all major websites`(Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, maybe even old IE 😱)
- Test the website on `actual mobile devices`, not just in DevTools
- Optimize all `images`, in terms of dimensions and file size(ver images lecture)
- Fix simple `accessibility` problems (ej color contrast issues)
- Run the `Lighthouse` performance test in Chrome DevTools and try to fix reported issues
- Pensar en la optimización de los motores de búsqueda (SEO) <= BUSCAR ESTO

6. LAUNCH

- Once the work is done, everything is perfect, and you got approval from your client (o mi mismo), it's time to `share your masterpiece with the world`
- Upload your website files to a `hosting platform`. There are countless platform, we will use Netlify
- Choose and buy a great `domain name`, one that represents the brand well, is memorable and easy to write (que sea fácil de memorizar, que represente a la compañía que esta diseñado)

7. MAINTAIN AND UPDATE

- Launching is not the end
- Keep the website content `updated over time`. If you're working with a client, you can create monthly maintenance contract (ingresos recurrentes 🤑)
- Install `analytics software` (ej Google Analytics or Fathom) to get statistics about website users. This may `inform future changes` in the site structure and content
- A `blog` that is updated regularly is a good way to keep users coming back, and is also good for SEO

## Defining and Planning the Project (Steps 1 and 2)

- `Your first "job"!`
- `You were hired to design and build a website` for a fictional company called Omnifood
- Omnifood is startup that uses Ai to create and deliver custom healthy meal plans
- They provided us with all the content for the website (content.md)
